# glass-diapositives-egyptology-ku-leuven-libraries
Full processed dataset from the collection of glass diapositives Egyptology offered as open data for digital humanities research and other creative engagement. 
## Glass diapositives Egyptology
The collection of glass diapositives Egyptology of KU Leuven Libraries consists of approximately 3500 slides, which are currently stored at 2Bergen Campus Arenberg. Within this collection, there is huge variety in the themes that are depicted, ranging from daily life and travel photography, educational slides with views of monuments and museum artifacts to slides depicting ongoing excavations such as those at the ancient sites of Medamud and El-Tod at the beginning of the twentieth century. Little information is known on the origin of the collection or the age of the slides, although they were surely used to teach Egyptology at KU Leuven well into the seventies. The glass diapositives were digitized and described as part of the [EuropeanaPhotography](https://pro.europeana.eu/project/europeanaphotography) project with digitisation being completed in two batches, the first one performed between January 2014 and 2016 and the second one between April 2020 and June 2021.

## Glass diapositives Egyptology dataset 
The glass diapositives Egyptology dataset is a repository of descriptive metadata of all the glass slides depicting Egypt or related to the subject of Egyptology from KU Leuven Libraries. The collection can be explored through the [Libraries’ Curated Collections](https://limo.libis.be/primo-explore/collectionDiscovery?vid=KULeuven&collectionId=81386064490001488&lang=en_US) discovery interface, within the thematic collection [“Photography”](https://limo.libis.be/primo-explore/collectionDiscovery?vid=KULeuven&collectionId=81475525920001488&lang=en_US). As part of a Digital Humanities internship at the department of Digitisation of KU Leuven Libraries, the glass slides and associated metadata were pushed to both [Wikidata](https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q112958007) and [Wikimedia Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Glass_diapositives_Egyptology,_KU_Leuven_Libraries), making them consultable on these platforms as well. 

## Who can use it
The repository is designated as a free resource for digital humanities research, for scholars, students and teachers. It also is intended for creative reuse.

## Provenance 
The dataset is fully based on the library catalog metadata, which follows the MARC21 Format for Bibliographic data.doi It consists of descriptive metadata and URLs to the digital representation on PRIMO, the search interface of KU Leuven Libraries. The unprocessed data was downloaded as a MARCXML file from the ALMA digital preservation environment and converted into a CSV and XLSX file using the MarcEdit tool. Data cleaning and enrichment were performed using OpenRefine, ExifTool, Pattypan, and Jupyter Notebooks, the results of which will be published in this repository. The raw dataset can be found [here](https://zenodo.org/record/6907228) as a XLSX file. 

## Project outline 
A DH project was carried out on the collection of glass diapositives Egyptology as part of an internship and thesis project for the Advanced MSc Digital Humanities KU Leuven that took place between March and August 2022. The collection was chosen due the intern’s background as a MA Egyptology and the need for manual data cleaning of the descriptive metadata, which was performed as a student job at the department of Metadata Services and Acquisitions prior to the internship at the department of Digitisation taking place. The internship itself focused on further data cleaning, metadata enrichment, and pushing the metadata and the associated images to Wikidata and Wikimedia Commons by using the application softwares OpenRefine, ExifTool, Pattypan, and Jupyter Notebooks. A total of 12925 actions were performed in OpenRefine, to prepare the data optimally for upload. 

The choice to push data to Wikidata and Wikimedia Commons is well-described in the thesis written during this internship, which can be freely consulted through KU Leuven’s PRIMO; the main goal of which can be summarized as dissemination of KU Leuven Libraries’ digitized collections. Although the whole dataset was prepared for data upload, only two batches were pushed during the internship itself, due to time limitations and loss of learning effect after multiple uploads. These first batches consisted of the glass slides related to the excavations of El-Tod and Medamud, as they were considered more unique than those slides specifically designed for educational purposes, not degrading the value of the latter in any way. This totals to 662 slides which can all be found on Wikimedia Commons under the [“glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries”](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Category:Glass_diapositives_Egyptology,_KU_Leuven_Libraries) category. All data can be queried using the [Wikidata Query Service](https://query.wikidata.org/) or download of batch files can occur through the desktop application [Imker](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Commons:Imker_(batch_download) or the use of [command-line tools](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Commons:Download_tools). Future uploads to the Wiki Environment will be carried out by the department of Digitisation after user statistics prove the platform a valuable addition to their open data policy. 

In this repository, eight files will be uploaded, the technical aspects of which will be discussed below: 

1. An OpenRefine project (TAR.GZ file) containing all columns created during this project - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-openrefine-processed-data*
2. A “cleaned” OpenRefine project (TAR.GZ file) which does not contain the columns associated with the raw metadata, Wikimedia Commons and exifdata to make its appearance less cluttered and enhance its usability for researchers. The OpenRefine project thus contains the cleaned data, as it was prepared for Wikidata, the English translations extracted in Jupyter Notebooks using Python (see code), and the keywords extracted by the Named Entity Recognition extension using the Dandelion API service - *
3. A .CSV file with the exifdata that was uploaded into the images of El-Tod and Medamud using ExifTool - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-exiftool-openrefine*
4. A .XLSX file with with the metadata used to upload the images of El-Tod to Wikimedia Commons using Pattypan 22.03 - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-pattypan-wc-tod*
5. A .XLSX file with with the metadata used to upload the images of Medamud to Wikimedia Commons using Pattypan 22.03 - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-pattypan-wc-medamud*
6. A .IPYNB file with the process of translating the titles to English and tests performed for named entity recognition and keyword extraction - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-jupyter-notebook-ner*
7. A .IPYNB file with the tests performed for the Python translators library in Python - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-jupyter-notebook-translations*
8. A .IPYNB file with creation geographic distribution maps and encountered problems - *glass-diapositives-egyptology-jupyter-notebook-geographic-distribution*

## Technical aspects and known flaws
The technical aspects of each dataset are discussed separately, with their main features and flaws being highlighted. To correctly display the contents of the XLSX files, it is advised that Libre Office, Microsoft Excel or Google Spreadsheets is used. The TAR.GZ file should be opened with OpenRefine and the IPYNB files with Jupyter Notebook. For a correct download of the desired file click on file and then right-click on 'Download' selecting 'Save link as'. All files can be downloaded from [Zenodo](10.5281/zenodo.6993205) as well. A description of the technical aspects of the files is given, with the first one combining the columns present in file two to five, and will therefore not be discussed separately. 

To be able to understand the structure of the OpenRefine project (*glass-diapositives-egyptology-jupyter-notebook-processed-data*) and its large number of columns, the data mapping to Wikidata and Wikimedia Commons is given below. The nature of Wikidata requires the metadata to be split up fully so each individual element can be reconciled against existing Wikidata items. This implies that the level of uncertainty of each element needs to be added in a separate column as well, which can be recognised by the addition of ‘U_’ at the beginning of the column name. To preserve the level of detail present in the date of creation of the object depicted on the glass slide (*depicts_time_x*) beyond the ancient Egyptian dynasty, a separate column *depicts_time_SP_x* (with SP for specific date) was created but not yet added to Wikidata. In total, 97 columns with cleaned and reconciled data were created in the OpenRefine project, starting from the raw metadata which can be viewed [here](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6907228). The *en_translation* column was created using Python in Jupyter Notebooks, the code for which can be found in this repository as well. Due to the use of a Named Entity Recognition extension with the Dandelion API, named entities could be extracted from the translated titles, which are added under *NER*. 

| MARC21 tags | Wikidata property | Wikimedia Commons | Example 1 - MMS ID: 9992119907501488: WIKIDATA | Example 1 - MMS ID: 9992119907501488: WIKIMEDIA COMMONS
|--|--|--|--|--|
| 500 | Creator (P170) (object has role (P3831): Photographer) | Photographer | Anonymous Object has role: Photographer | Anonymous
| 264$b + 264$a | Manufacturer (P176) (qualifier: location) | Notes |--|--|
| 245$a + 245$b | Name of Wikidata item and label | Title | Bawit. Klooster van de Heilige Apollo. Paneel met reliëf uit Noordelijke kerk: Twee engelen houden medaillon vast met portret van een vrouw | Bawit. Klooster van de Heilige Apollo. Paneel met reliëf uit Noordelijke kerk: Twee engelen houden medaillon vast met portret van een vrouw
| fixed value - new | description |--| glass diapositive Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries |--|
| commons filename | Image (P18) |--|--|--|
|545\\$aOorspronkelijke locatie | Depicts (P180) (with qualifier location: Egypt original_location_1) | Depicted place | Bawit Locatie: Egypte Klooster van de Heilige Apollo Noordelijke kerk | Egypt. Bawit. Klooster van de Heilige Apollo, Noordelijke kerk
| 490 1\$a (and 545\\$aCreatie/Bouw if more specific) | start time (P580) and end time (P582) | Date | start time: 1839 end time: 1939 | 1839 - 1939
| 950 | Instance of (P31) | Medium | glass diapositive | glass diapositive
| 300$c | Width (P2049) + height (P2048) | Dimensions | width: 100 millimetre height: 85 miliimetre | 100 mm x 85 mm
| fixed value - new | Collection (P195) | Collection | glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries | glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries
| fixed value - new | Location (P276) | Current location | 2Bergen Campus Arenberg | 2Bergen Campus Arenberg
| 856 4\$u + $y | Inventory number (P217) | Accession number | KU Leuven Libraries WBIB WMAG PRECA GDE000779/box 007 Collection: glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries Reference URL: http:/lib.is/IE2842182/representation | KU Leuven Libraries WBIB WMAG PRECA GDE000779/box 007. http:/lib.is/IE2842182/representation 
| 545 | Depicts (P180) (with sourcing circumstances) | Notes | Musée du Louvre Coptic Art 6th century wood | Current location of depicted object: France, Paris, Musée du Louvre ; Style/Movement of depicted object: Coptic Art ; Date of creation/construction: 6th century ; Material of depicted object: wood
| 500 | inscription (P1684) | Inscription | Toegevoegde informatie op dia | Toegevoegde informatie op dia
| 500 \\$a Museum ID: + 856 4\$u + $y | described at URL (P973) (with inventory number and owned by as qualifiers) | References | http://cartelen.louvre.fr/cartelen/visite?srv=car_not_frame&idNotice=21938&langue=fr Location: Musée du Louvre Inventory number: Museum ID: AF5168 | Paris, Musée du Louvre. Museum ID: AF5168. http://cartelen.louvre.fr/cartelen/visite?srv=car_not_frame&idNotice=21938&langue=fr 
| fixed value - new + 856 $y | described at URL (P973) | Source | https://libis-kul.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/32KUL_KUL/1fst9n3/alma9992119907501488 Location: 2Bergen Campus Arenberg Inventory number: KU Leuven Libraries WBIB WMAG PRECA GDE000779/box 007 | https://libis-kul.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/32KUL_KUL/1fst9n3/alma9992119907501488 
| 542 $l | Copyright status (P6216) (with determination method: 70 years after author's death or anonymous publication + applies to jurisdiction: Belgium) | Permission | public domain determination method known author: 70 years or more after author's death (Q29870196) determination method unknown author: 70 years since publication by anonymous author (Q60628769) Applies to jurisdiction: Belgium | public domain
| fixed value - new | terms of service URL (P7014) (with title: Terms of use for digitized collections KU Leuven Libraries (EN)) | Permission | https://bib.kuleuven.be/BD/digitalisering-en-document-delivery/digitalisering/gebruiksvoorwaarden
Title: Terms of use for digitized collections KU Leuven Libraries (EN) | https://bib.kuleuven.be/BD/digitalisering-en-document-delivery/digitalisering/gebruiksvoorwaarden 
| fixed value - new and from exifdata | Digitised by (P1013) (with URL as reference and point in time: date digitisation) |--| KU Leuven. Imaging Lab |--|
| new | Commons category (P373) | Wikidata ID | Glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries |--|

The third file present in this repository is a .CSV file containing the exifdata that was added in the images of El-Tod and Medamud before their upload to the Wiki Environment. It consists of 672 rows and 249 columns, of which 11 were added using OpenRefine and ExifTool. This could be done quickly as the information is already present in the descriptive metadata or consists of a fixed value, which could be added easily. All columns were made using the “add column based on this column” feature in OpenRefine, combined with the use of GREL.  A new OpenRefine project, called “exifdata”, was created and using the cell.cross function in GREL it was possible to extract the prepared columns from the wikiproject (*glass-diapositives-egyptology-openrefine-processed-data*) to this newly created exifdata project matched on DIGI number. A detailed description of the process can be found in the associated internship report. 

Due to the large number of columns present, it is not possible to clarify the content of all of them. The choice of columns to be added was inspired by the webinar organized by [meemoo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W0v0Iwde86I) and more information on XMP Tags and exifdata can be found on the [ExifTool website](https://exiftool.org/TagNames/XMP.html). Instructions on how to use ExifTool to extract and add metadata were found [here](https://www.projectcest.be/wiki/Publicatie:Upload_van_reproducties_van_kunstwerken_uit_het_Groeningemuseum_op_Wikimedia_Commons) and followed closely. 
To extract and add the exifdata from and to the images, the following commands were used in the command line (on Windows):
*exiftool -csv “/path/to/folder/with/images” > “path/to-the-csv-to-be-created/filename.csv”*
    *exiftool -csv="path/to-the-created-csv/filename.csv" “path/to/folder/with/images"*
Applied to this collection, the command looked like: 
*exiftool -csv "./wikiproject_glasdia_egyptologie" >  ". /ingebedde_metadata.csv"*
*exiftool -csv=”./ingebedde_metadata.csv” “./wikiproject_glasdia_egyptologie”*


| Number | XMP Tags | Description | Instance 
|--|--|--|--|
| 1 | ArtworkSourceInvURL | Permalink to digital object on PRIMO | http://lib.is/IE2840551/representation
| 2 | ArtworkSourceInventoryNo | Inventory number referring to physical location glass slide | KU Leuven Libraries WBIB WMAG PRECA GDE000002/box 001
| 3 | ArtworkSource | Source of collection, holding place with ISIL number of institution | KU Leuven Libraries (http://isil.kbr.be/BE-LVN02)
| 4 | ArtworkCopyrightNotice | Copyright status of the glass slide | public domain
| 5 | ArtworkCreator | Creator of the glass slide | anonymous
| 6 | ArtworkTitle | Title given to the slide in descriptive metadata | Medamud. Tempel van Montu. Man en twee kinderen, zittend voor de zuilen van de portico
| 7 | LicensorName | Name of copyright holder | Katholieke Universiteit Leuven
| 8 | LicensorEmail | Email of copyright holder | digitalisering@kuleuven.be
| 9 | CopyrightFlag | Copyright status true or false | 0
| 10 | UsageTerms | Terms of service | https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
| 11 | Webstatement | Copyright license | CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0) Public Domain Dedication

The last files present are two XLSX files containing the metadata of El-Tod and Medamud to be uploaded to Wikimedia Commons, together with the actual images. The necessary data was prepared in OpenRefine following the [photography template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:Photograph) of Wikimedia Commons and using the Pattypan tool for batch upload. To this template, the wikidata QID was added to be able to link both platforms. The XLSX files consist of two sheets, one with 17 columns containing the actual metadata as well as a PATH to the image file and one with the template followed. The necessary columns were created in OpenRefine using the “add column based on this column” feature, and follow a Wikimedia Commons template if applicable. After, these columns were exported from OpenRefine as an XLSX file using “custom tabular export” and added to the XLSX file created by Pattypan. Matching occurred based on the DIGI numbers. To push the files to Wikimedia Commons, the completed XLSX file was uploaded in Pattypan and validated. 

| Number | Wikimedia  Commons Value | Description | Instance 
|--|--|--|--|
| 1 | path | URL to the image on the user’s device |  C:\Users\lunab\Desktop\Overwritten_El_Tod\DIGI_0007_0003_000924.jpg
| 2 | name | Title of the file on Wikimedia Commons | El-Tod. Tempel van Montu. Laagreliëf van Sesostris III 02 
| 3 | photographer | Creator of the glass slide, following [template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:Creator) | {{Creator |Wikidata=Q4233718}}
| 4 | depicted_place | Place seen on the glass slide, following [template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:City) | {{City |1=Q287731|link=wikidata }}
| 5 | date | Date of creation of the glass slide | circa 1839-1939
| 6 | dimensions | Dimensions of the glass slide | {{Size|mm|100|85}}
| 7 | institution | ** error in Wikimedia Commons template, will show up as collection, follows [template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:Institution) **  | {{Institution | Wikidata=Q112958007}}
| 8 | department | ** error in Wikimedia Commons template, will show up as current location, follows [template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:Institution) ** | {{Institution |  Wikidata=Q112958161}}
| 9 | references | Name of the museum with museum ID and permalink to artifact in the museum’s online database ** if references not filled in, Wikimedia Commons automatically adds lib.is URL and PRIMO URL to glass slide in KU Leuven Libraries’ online database which it extracts from Wikidata ** | Paris, Musée du Louvre. Museum ID: E 15128-E 15318. https://collections.louvre.fr/ark:/53355/cl010462441
| 10 | inscriptions | Annotations present on glass slide | Toegevoegde informatie op dia
| 11 | notes | Additional information about the subject of the slide such as style, date of creation, original location, current location, and material or technique of the depicted object | Date(s) of creation/construction: Dynastie XII [=c. 1872-1853 BC] ; Style of depicted object: Egyptische kunst, Middenrijk ; Current location of depicted object: Egypte, El-Tod
| 12 | accession_number | Inventory number referring to physical location glass slide with URL to digital representation object | KU Leuven Libraries WBIB WMAG PRECA GDE000924/box 008. http://lib.is/IE2843183/representation
| 13 | source | URL to digital representation of the object in PRIMO environment | https://libis-kul.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/32KUL_KUL/1fst9n3/alma9992828208401488
| 14 | permission | Copyright license of the digital object, dedicated to the public domain by KU Leuven Libraries, following [template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:Cc-zero) | {{cc-zero}}
| 15 | wikidata | Wikidata QID of glass slide previously uploaded to Wikidata | Q11310999
| 16 | license | Copyright status of the physical object, following [template](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Template:PD-anon-70-EU) | {{PD-anon-70-EU}}
| 17 | categories | Categories to which the files will be added on Wikimedia Commons, multiple categories are separated by ‘;’ | Glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries; Historical photographs of Egypt; Image sources of Belgium; Images from libraries in Belgium; Tod

During this internship, a number of flaws were discovered in the dataset, which need to be discussed to enable possible research to take place efficiently. First, there is a mistake in the columns containing information on original and current location of the object depicted on the glass diapositive, which were originally put together under a composite column with field tag 545 (see [raw dataset](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6907228)). During metadata creation, a deprecated practice was followed where both columns were not filled in consistently. More specifically, if the current location is equal to the original location, the latter is often left blank, although this can also be the other way around. If the location depicted on the slide is unknown, it is left blank as well; which makes the distinction between those slides of which the locations are simply not known and those who have not moved through time impossible. Due to the large number of glass diapositives in the collection, a manual check to correct this information could not be performed. 

Secondly, the DIGI number and the time of digitisation of the glass diapositives was only added for those slides uploaded to Wikidata and Wikimedia Commons during this internship (El-Tod and Medamud). This information is therefore incomplete and should be supplemented during each batch upload to the Wiki Environment (and updated in this repository as well). The same applies to the *upload_to_wikidata*, *upload_to_commons*, and Wikidata QID columns to which information can only be added after the glass diapositive are uploaded to Wikidata and/or Commons.

The third shortcoming in the raw metadata was the lack of English translations, reducing its usability for the international community. To counteract this, Python was used in a Jupyter Notebook to translate the titles to English - this should be continued for other columns as well (e.g. the notes provided on Wikimedia Commons have English labels but values are written in Dutch, this can be improved!). Even though the translation is not perfect, a quick manual cleaning proved their quality to be sufficient to upload to Wikidata to supplement the Dutch labels and perform named entity recognition. However, it should be kept in mind that mistakes can still occur in these translations and they should not be regarded as perfect. The same holds true for the named entities extracted by using the [named-entity-recognition extension](https://freeyourmetadata.org/named-entity-extraction/) of the [Free Your Metadata project](https://freeyourmetadata.org/). 

Next, some explanation is required with the file names or titles having the numerical component 01, 02 or 03. This relates to another flaw in the metadata creation where multiple glass slides depicting the same subject and therefore having the same title were considered to be one digital object and were all added in the same record. These records had to be split up so that each glass diapositive had its own record in OpenRefine and could be correctly added to the Wiki Environment. These glass slides were differentiated from each other on Wikidata and Wikimedia Commons by adding a simple numerical component to their title, but this number has no additional value beyond this.

Another aspect of the dataset that should be discussed is the date of creation/construction of the depicted object on the slide and the slide itself. No real differentiation was made between these two during metadata creation with both being added to the composite column with field tag 545 as \\$aCreatie/Bouw (see [raw dataset](http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6907228)). Since only a broad range from 1839 until 1939 was provided as a production date for all glass diapositives, it is unfortunate that exact dates were not split up from other dates by receiving a different subtag, label or being placed in a separate column. Using text filters and text faceting in OpenRefine, this problem was solved but this process introduced room for human errors. Further, one might notice that the date of creation of the depicted object(s) on the slide are not added to Wikidata fully, staying at the level of ancient Egyptian dynasties and not extending to specific ranges. This problem should be solved in the future as well. 

## Cite this dataset 
When referring to or using this dataset in research publications and documentation, consider citing the repository with its Zenodo DOI (digital object identifier).Citation of the glass diapositives Egyptology dataset creates a mapping of attribution and this way supports the libraries’ efforts to release other datasets in the future. It further limits the amount of orphan data as it secures source links. Cite the repository as: Beerden Luna, (2022). Processed Glass diapositives Egyptology, KU Leuven Libraries [Data set]. Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6993205.

## License
The glass diapositives Egyptology dataset is licensed under a [Public Domain Mark](https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/pdm/) (PDM), which means that the dataset is copyrighted but dedicated to the public domain by the copyright holder. This way, it can be freely used by anyone. KU Leuven Libraries follows an open images policy that allows its public domain digitised heritage collections to be freely copied, modified, distributed and reused, only by mentioning “KU Leuven. [Name of the collection]” without asking for further permission. For a detailed view of the library’s terms of service see: https://bib.kuleuven.be/BD/digitalisering-en-document-delivery/digitalisering/gebruiksvoorwaarden

## Code of conduct 
The GitHub repository of the Digitisation Department of KU Leuven Libraries follows the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org) as a way to be overt in its openness, welcoming all people to engage and contribute, pledging in return to value them. In order to make our open communities welcoming, diverse and inclusive, we are encouraging the adaptation of a mindful code of conduct as a means to express and share those values. Any unacceptable behavior such as trolling, insulting/derogatory comments, personal or political attacks will not be tolerated. The Contributor Covenant is released under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License.

## Project Attribution 
[KU Leuven Libraries]( https://bib.kuleuven.be/english)
* Nele Gabriëls: Digitisation Department (project supervisor)
* Hendrik Hameeuw: Digitisation Department (project supervisor)
* Demmy Verbeke: Head of Artes (project advisor)
* Laura Narli: Metadata Services and Acquisitions
* Mark Verbrugge: Digitisation Department 

[Advanced MSc in Digital Humanities, KU Leuven](https://set.kuleuven.be/onderwijs/mdh)
* Luna Beerden: Research and Traineeship, thesis project

## Contributors 
This project follows the [all-contributors](https://allcontributors.org) specification. KU Leuven Libraries recognises contributions and engagement for its open data repository through [emoji key](https://allcontributors.org/docs/en/emoji-key)✨, in a way to reward every contribution, not only code. Contributions of any kind like questions, ideas, link to videos, translations and many more will be automatically acknowledged through the all-contributors bot 🤖.

KU Leuven Libraries would like to thank the following contributors (emoji key):
